Blog posts for roadmap 2024 H1! (#33192)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2024-06-11-roadmap-introduction.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "A roadmap for Home Assistant"
description: "Learn more about what we came up with the roadmap, what it entails, and how you can build upon it together!"
date: 2024-06-11 00:00:00
date_formatted: "June 11, 2024"
author: Madelena Mak
comments: true
categories: Announcements Roadmap
og_image: images/blog/2024-06-roadmap-introduction/art.jpg
---

<p class="img no-shadow"><img src='/images/blog/2024-06-roadmap-introduction/art.jpg' alt='Artwork for the roadmap introduction'/><i>Art by Clelia Rella</i></p>

During our [State of the Open Home livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oa__fLArsFk&t=7649s), we presented the future of the open home with the announcement of our first roadmap.

> Over the past few years, we had begun the practice of giving a theme for the direction we wanted to take the Home Assistant project towards each year. Last year, we had the successful [Year of the Voice](/blog/2022/12/20/year-of-voice/), in which we built our voice assistant architecture from the ground up. And before that, we had “[Streamlining Experiences](/blog/2022/01/19/streamlining-experiences/)” where we took our first stab at improving the UX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the past few years, we have begun the practice of giving a theme for the direction we wanted to take the Home Assistant project towards each year. Last year, we had the successful [Year of the Voice](/blog/2022/12/20/year-of-voice/), in which we built our voice assistant architecture from the ground up. And before that, we had “[Streamlining Experiences](/blog/2022/01/19/streamlining-experiences/)” where we took our first stab at improving the UX.
```

Having a good set of goals allows us to focus our community and resources to build new projects rapidly together. With the Year of the Voice, we have attracted new contributors who are experts in wake words and voice technologies, translators of many languages, and hobbyists in building impressive one-of-a-kind voice assistants. We want to continue this success by laying out the strategy and direction for the continuous development of the Home Assistant project, and a product roadmap is a perfect tool for such a purpose.

> Our roadmap is an open call for contributions in the product areas we are focusing on. Unlike many public roadmaps of commercial products, this is not a marketing ploy to attract customers to buy into nebulous unrealized future features. This is a tool for our contributors and us, the maintainers of the project, to plan ahead for our collective future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our roadmap is an open call for contributions in the product areas we are focusing on. Unlike many public roadmaps of commercial products, this is not a marketing ploy to attract customers to buy into nebulous, unrealized future features. It is a tool for our contributors and us, the project maintainers, to plan ahead for our collective future.
```

### Timeframes

Our timeframes are divided roughly into what’s current, next, and later priorities. We decided against using exact dates because, on the one hand, guaranteeing a due date on features we might not even need to build puts unnecessary pressure on our maintainers. On the other hand, we cannot predict if or when our contributors will make contributions to our top initiatives. In general, a current priority is about three months, next is another three months after what’s current is done, and so on.

## How are roadmaps made?

We want to make sure that this is an open source, open development, and open design process. So we, as the core project maintainers, will keep the dialog open to feedback and changes from our contributors and our community.

For our first roadmap in 2024 H1, we worked hard for 7 months to build it from scratch in the following steps:

1. **Foundation**: We make sure that our [founder’s vision](/blog/2016/01/19/perfect-home-automation/) of what the best Home Assistant can be is reflected fully in the North Star of the roadmap. We also agree upon the purpose of the roadmap.

> 2. **Collective feedback**: After that, we met with the core project maintainers of various product areas, from frontend, voice, OS, documentation, open protocols, ESPHome, and more. We collected hundreds of problems that they know are the most concerning to our users, and their ideas on how these problems can be solved. We also scoured and scanned through every top feature request on our forums and from previous Months of What the Heck. We collated them into one huge list of product issues we need to solve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Collective feedback**: After that, we met with the core project maintainers of various product areas, from frontend, voice, OS, documentation, open protocols, ESPHome, and more. We collected hundreds of problems that they know are the most concerning to our users and their ideas on how these problems can be solved. We also scoured and scanned through every top feature request on our forums and from previous Months of What the Heck. We collated them into one huge list of product issues we need to solve.
```

> 3. **Prioritization**: We then organized and categorized these issues into various initiatives that we can pursue. Finally, we prioritized all these initiatives by the amount of potential users who could benefit from them, how big an impact it can make, how certain we are in the issue, or if research is needed before proceeding. The final result is then organized into the roadmap that you see now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Prioritization**: We organized and categorized these issues into various initiatives that we can pursue. Finally, we prioritized all these initiatives by the number of potential users who could benefit from them, how big an impact they can make, how certain we are in the issue, or if research is needed before proceeding. The final result is then organized into the roadmap that you see now.
```

> A roadmap is a _living document_, and we intend to adjust our bearings and revisit our roadmap every half-year. For instance, when we improve initiatives to an adequate level or if the needs of our users and community change, we will move our resources to focus on the next important priorities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A roadmap is a _living document_, and we intend to adjust our bearings and revisit it every half-year. For instance, when we improve initiatives to an adequate level or if the needs of our users and community change, we will move our resources to focus on the next important priorities.
```

Our next update on the roadmap will be around late October to early November, after collecting your feedback from our infamous Month of What the Heck.

## How to use our roadmap

As I mentioned before, our roadmap is not a list of future features, but an open call for contributions in the product areas we are focusing on.

If you would like to contribute to the Home Assistant project, I hope that our roadmap can provide you with ideas and guidance on what you can do. There are a number of ways you can support this journey. Let’s build the future of the Open Home together!

- **Develop**: If you are a developer, of course you can contribute your code!
  

>   If you are an expert in the areas we are currently focused on in our roadmap, please feel free to reach out to us directly on [Discord](https://www.home-assistant.io/join-chat). For example, if our current focus is to “improve voice assistant abilities out of the box” and if you were a wake word or LLM expert, that’s perfect! Please reach out and see where you can help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you are an expert in the areas we are currently focused on in our roadmap, please feel free to reach out to us directly on [Discord](/join-chat). For example, if our current focus is to “improve voice assistant abilities out of the box” and if you were a wake word or LLM expert, that’s perfect! Please reach out and see where you can help.
```

  
  If you know what you want to build, awesome! Be sure to check out our developer docs and learn about our [review process](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/review-process).
  

>   If you don’t have any ideas what to code, please feel free to check out our [GitHub issues](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues) and our [top feature requests](https://community.home-assistant.io/c/feature-requests/13/l/latest?order=votes). You may also chat with other folks on Discord to find out what needs your help the most.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you don’t have any ideas on what to code, please feel free to check out our [GitHub issues](https://github.com/home-assistant/core/issues) and our [top feature requests](https://community.home-assistant.io/c/feature-requests/13/l/latest?order=votes). You may also chat with other folks on Discord to find out what needs your help the most.
```
